>> Sarah: We talked about components and
we have a bunch of demos already.
Let's take one of the demos we already
worked on and actually start using them
with components, instead of just having
everything living in the view instance.
It's not very common, but
you're just gonna stick every single
thing inside of the view instance.
You're actually usually gonna
have that view instance and
create components off of it.
So let's refactor.
We had this before,
we have our little comment form, like we
ate lunch and then we can put
that comment onto the forum.
And to review, we had that new
comment was just an empty string.
An array of comments and then we had our
add comment which pushed onto that array
and cleared out that string.
And in the  we have an  that's common
in comments and there's the comment.
But we're repeating ourselves
with that , this is not
necessarily a refactor that I would do,
but it's gonna get us to the next step.
We talked a little bit about that
template string that we could do.
Since we're redoing that  again and
again,
what we could do is put it in a string and
have that  be encapsulated here.
So let's actually go into code pen and
take a look.
I'm gonna collapse these guys so
you can see it a little bit better.
Our comments form, our view instance looks
pretty much the same, but we're declaring
above the vue instance, this vue.comment,
and this is individual-comment,
and here's our template, and we're
passing down the props of comment post.
Then when we look in our ,
we have this  is individual-comment.
So what that will do is
establish a relationship
between this individual-comment, and
this is individual comments and whatever
is in that template will be output there.
So what changed?
We have the  that's here and
then we have that is, which is here.
And that's what's changing,
that's what we're using.
That is is a special piece
of markup that we're using.
But, you know, that was just basically
a step because, really, in comment forums,
we don't just like write the comment and
there's no other information.
We usually have the person's avatar, and
their name, and what they said, and stuff.
And you can see how, when we're,
if we're using a template string,
this no longer makes sense.
If I was going to put all of
this stuff in a template string,
that template string would get really
big and a little bit, you know, hairy.
I would lose syntax highlighting and
all that kinda stuff.
So maybe that's better as a component.
Now I can repeat that component over and
over again.
That's a little bit more clear.
So in the JavaScript,
we have individual comment, but now for
the template, we're saying
the comment is this comment template.
We're defining an ID.
And this is a query selector, so
we could use classes, or whatever.
But again, I use IDs in these incidences,
because I really wanna make sure
there's just one reference to it.
I don't wanna, have multiple classes
there, so it kind of does that for me.
And then, in the HTML, we'd have this, and
this is a new little piece of markup that
won't look familiar to you, it's this
wrapping of the script type x-template,
and then we have this
id="comment-template", and
then we have the template which
is the ID of common template.
So that means that this component will use
whatever is inside of this bit of markup.
When we move into like of vue-cli/builds,
these will be structured
totally different.
But if you want to use vue in
an existing application and
you don't have that kind of build set up,
you could use components that are a little
bit larger in your application and
make them this special little script type.
And basically what will happen is HTML,
CSS, JavaScript will not understand that
script type it will just pass over it and
it won't parse it.
But vue will go look for it.
So it is a clever little
way of working around it.
And grabbing that piece and
turning it into a component, yeah?
>> Speaker 2: So, in your HTML,
you have an  take.
And you're saying it is a comment,
but it is a component, but
then your component
template also has an .
So is it replacing?
>> Sarah: Yeah, I think actually I
should have probably used <span> for
that, now that I think about it.
But I think you can, I mean I think
like two nesting s is okay but
not really good markups.
>> Speaker 2: So, your original
remains in any attributes you put on it.
And then, the content of
the template goes inside of it?
>> Sarah: You know, I'm not sure.
Let's go look.
Because we can see this
pretty easily from the DOM.
So if we go over here.
>> Sarah: It's just one .
So it is actually replacing that one.
So it's basically saying,
taking that template and
replacing that existing  with that.
But I think, there might be a better
way of structuring that code so
that there's not a duplication of s.
I could have used a div or
something else in that area.
>> Speaker 2: Is it like
merging the properties?
Cuz you have other things
on there like v-4 and
those other properties on your master .
>> Sarah: It's not, It's not merging them,
it's basically taking that
whatever the inner text is and
using the inner text.
So it's the same thing as like if you
are replacing the inner text in straight
up JavaScript.
Does that make sense?
So it's still using the directives
that's on that component, but
it's replacing the inner
text that's inside of that.
>> Sarah: So then if we go back to this,
if we have that individual comment,
we have a bunch of things in here.
We have comment post to author image, so
you can assume that I have a thing
called comment post to author.
So we have this object that has
the author image The author and the text.
So basically the really important part
here that we changed, was taking this
template and pointing to this id and
it is pointing to this id in the html.
Let's go look basically at
this component as well so
you can see what we are doing exactly.
We've got these comments
are now not an array anymore,
it's now, well it's still an array, but
we have objects that we're using
to pass all of those down.
So if we look at this ,
we can still say is individual comment,
but then we can pass in all
of that information and
to have images, and
small tag, and ptag, etc.
So, another option,
is that we could do a local component.
This is only available to you if you're
all using it within the same file,
as the same as the view instance.
So, it's not if you're
starting to split things up,
you still need to use this vue.component.
But if it's all in the same file,
you could write const IndividualComment
and then the template in the props.
So that's kind of a nice clean way of
writing that, and we're doing that all in
CodePen in one file, so
we're able to do that if we wanted to.
I use the other syntax because
it's more flexible, if I wanted to
keep it in a different file or
put it in one, then I could do so.
So in here, if we wanted to use
this const individual comment and
designate it this way, we would then have
to in our view instance say components,
and individual component is, our
individual comment is, individual comment.
So we would have to then say that
we're using some components.
And that's where it is, so
that's the changes that we would have.